An important part of
the Bitcoin core ecosystem is the different networks that are provided for you.
These environments are for developers to test and deploy Bitcoin applications.
To do this effectively,
they provide three different networks each serving a different purpose.
These networks are the Mainnet,
the Testnet, and the Regnet.
In this video we'll explore the purpose of each of
these networks to help you understand when it's best to use them.
The Bitcoin Mainnet is the one you may already be familiar with just not by the name.
It's a primary network where live transactions take place.
Everything you have heard about sending Bitcoins and
using wallets is all taking place on this network.
The coins used here have
real-world value and is what you've been accessing using your Bitcoin wallet.
The purpose of this mainnet is to handle live transactions with
coins that have real-world value across your network appears.
This is great for providing all the functionality of Bitcoin,
but it makes it difficult to test
new applications on it without slowing down the network.
To handle this, Bitcoin core has a test environment meant for testing applications.
The Bitcoin Testnet is an alternative Bitcoin blockchain
to provide a test environment for Bitcoin applications.
In the Testnet you have access to Testnet coins.
These coins have no real-world value and allow you to
test the functionality of your application without needing to spend real Bitcoins.
The goal is to allow you to develop
a personal sendbox environment without having to
spend real bitcoins and breaking the Mainnet.
This allows you to interact with peers on
the network that is entirely separate from the Mainnet.
One key function to note is that it still operates as a network.
Things like creating new blocks and validating
transactions still have to be done using the network.
This can slow down testing time if you wait for
a block or transactions to complete their life cycle.
To help address some of these concerns and speed up testing,
the Regnet was created.
The Regnet, short for
regression test mode is an alternative network for testing Bitcoin applications.
Like the Testnet, you'll use this network for
testing applications using coins that have no real-world value.
The difference is that on the Regnet,
you no longer have a network appears to work with.
You can instantaneously create new blocks and have complete control over
the environment that you're testing in and this will
significantly speed up test development time.
Each of these networks has
their own specific use cases and gives you the opportunity to create,
test, and deploy new Bitcoin applications as efficiently as possible.
Coming up, we'll compare each of these networks and
a little more detail then get you up and running with them.